---
layout: post
title:  "Choice Overload- Why Can't We Just Pick a Place to Eat?!"
date:   2019-08-05
excerpt: "The paralyzing effects of too many choices and efforts to overcome them!"
post: true
feature: 
tag:
- jekyll
comments: true
---

<center> “What do you want to eat?” is a question that I love and hate. As someone who spends a lot of her downtime scrolling through food Instagrams and watching Insider videos like “The Best Chocolate Chip Cookie in NYC,” this question gives me the opportunity to explore one of the many restaurants on my running list of eateries. But somehow, without fail, this question brings out mind spinning stress. I always quickly volunteer to find a place, and generally I have one restaurant in mind, only needing some validation from photos on Yelp. However, somehow, I always end up having ten different Yelp tabs open and find myself going to Google Maps hoping it will make a decision for me. Even if I go in having chosen one place, I can’t help but wonder, “What if this is better?” Once I go down that path, I can’t seem to stop. There is always a new restaurant popping up on the search, and I end up at square 1 after 30 minutes, with no place and lots of frustration. It’s even worse when you finally choose a place and someone says no for whatever reason. Enter stress ball relievers. 30 minutes of unnecessary work down the drain.
<br/>
Choice overload, or overchoice, or the paradox of choice, describes the phenomenon of difficult decision making as a result of too many choices. Simply put: when you have a lot of options, it’s really hard to make a decision. Choice is always good- it’s nice to voice your desire and have a say in a decision. Too much of it can be paralyzing. Here are some consequences of choice overload that we have all experienced: decision fatigue (how can trying to find a coffee shop to work at exhaust you so much you can’t do any actual work?!), choosing the default (you’re really going to get vanilla bean ice cream again Alice?), or choice deferral, which is when you avoid making a decision at all. This last one is what I’m interested in, particularly how it applies to my use of free time.
</center>
